# OWASP Top 10


* Broken Access Control                 --> Broken Access Control

* Broken Authentication                 --> Software and Data Integrity Failures

* Sensitive Data Exposure               --> Cryptographic Failures

* XXE XML External Entities             --> Security Misconfiguration

* Injection                             --> Injection

* XSS Cross Site Scripting              --> Injection

* Insecure Deserialization              --> Software and Data Integrity Failures

* Using Components with known failrues  --> Vulnerable and Outdated components

* Insufficient Logging & Monitoring     --> Security Logging and Monitoring Failures

                                        --> Server Side Request Forgery

*************************************************************************************************************************************
# CSRF (Cross Site Request Frogery) - https://portswigger.net/web-security/csrf
In a successful CSRF attack, the attacker causes the victim user to carry out an action unintentionally

It allows an attacker to partly circumvent the ['" Same Origin Policy "'] which is designed to prevent diffrent websites from interfacing each other.

# ['" Same Origin Policy "'],]CORS ["Cross Origin Resource Sharing"] - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AHV9ThkRT9w

Conditions require for CSRf attacks to be possible:

1. A relevent Action - 

There is an action within the application that the attacker has a reason to induce. for example suppose an application contains a function that lets the user change the email address on their account.user performs this action, This action of changing the email address on a user's account is of interest to an attacker.

2. Require Cookie-based session handeling - 

Performing the action involves issuing one or more HTTP requests, and the application should relies solely on session cookies to identify the user who has made the requests. There Should be no other mechanism in place for tracking sessions or validating user requests

3. No unpredictable request parameters -

The attacker should be abel to easily determine the values of the request parameters that are needed to perform the action.

Session -  user logs in banking application, user supplies his credentials to web app/server the app then sets a cookie in users browser, this cookie identifies user for future requests

anytime in future request the browser checks for cookie for so n so domain, if it founds it sets it then at server backend it is checked which user is assigned this cookie, the app checks the permission for reource the user is trying to access if he has then resource is presented to user

What is CSRF? - CSRF is an attack where the attacker causes the victim user to carry out and action unintentionally while the victim is authenticated

condition required - the victim needs to be already authenicated or looged in

Step 1 - sending user a malicious link that will conduct a CSRF attack

- for example the link https://bank.com/attack/change?email=attack@gmail.com  changes the email address of the user, 

- all what link does is that it chnages the email add of attacker from one to another

- However if attacker successfuly gets victim to click on this link while is logged in, the attacker will be able to change victim emial to his email

- when victims clicks the link the session cookie get sets with link, backed then gets to know that user wants to change the email address

What can attacker do? - since the attacker changed email to his, he can now use the forgot password and reset password and compromise the account




Remediations

 - CSRF Token

# CSRF or Anti CSRF Tokens - https://portswigger.net/web-security/csrf/tokens

A CSRF token is a unique, secret, unpredictable value that is generated by the server-side application and transmitted to the client in such a way that it is included in a subsequent HTTP request made by the client. When the later request is made, the server-side application validates that the request includes the expected token and rejects the request if the token is missing or invalid.

CSRF tokens can prevent CSRF attacks by making it impossible for an attacker to construct a fully valid HTTP request suitable for feeding to a victim user. Since the attacker cannot determine or predict the value of a user's CSRF token, they cannot construct a request with all the parameters that are necessary for the application to honor the request

# SameSite attribute - https://portswigger.net/web-security/csrf/samesite-cookies

The SameSite attribute can be used to control whether and how cookies are submitted in cross-site requests. 
By setting the attribute on session cookies, an application can prevent the default browser behavior of automatically adding cookies to requests regardless of where they originate.

The SameSite attribute is added to the Set-Cookie response header when the server issues a cookie, and the attribute can be given two values, Strict or Lax

For the reasons described, it is not recommended to rely solely on SameSite cookies as a defense against CSRF attacks. Used in conjunction with CSRF tokens, however, SameSite cookies can provide an additional layer of defense that might mitigate any defects in the token-based defenses.


**************************************************************************************************************************************
# XSS (Cross Site Scripting)

* Stored XSS / Persistent XSS / Blind XSS

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ABwS2MIxFPQ
https://portswigger.net/web-security/cross-site-scripting/stored

Stored cross-site scripting (also known as second-order or persistent XSS) arises when an application receives data from an untrusted source and includes that data within its later HTTP responses in an unsafe way.

* Blind XSS 

Blind XSS vulnerabilities are a variant of persistent XSS vulnerabilities

They occur when the attacker input is saved by the web server and executed as a malicious script in another part of the application or in another application. For example, an attacker injects a malicious payload into a contact/feedback page and when the administrator of the application is reviewing the feedback entries the attacker’s payload will be loaded.

In the case of blind XSS, the attacker’s input can be saved by the server and only executed after a long period of time when the administrator visits the vulnerable dashboard page. It can take hours, days, or even weeks until the payload is executed. 

Therefore, this type of vulnerabilities in web applications cannot be tested as other types of XSS vulnerabilities and they pose a challenge for web security (web application security), penetration testing, and security testing in general.

* Reflected XSS / Non-persistent

 youtube.com/watch?v=ABwS2MIxFPQ
 https://portswigger.net/web-security/cross-site-scripting/reflected


Reflected cross-site scripting (or XSS) arises when an application receives data in an HTTP request and includes that data within the immediate response in an unsafe way.

* DOM based XSS

https://portswigger.net/web-security/cross-site-scripting/dom-based

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_3Wgx1FabIo

DOM-based XSS vulnerabilities usually arise when JavaScript takes data from an attacker-controllable source, such as the URL, and passes it to a sink that supports dynamic code execution, such as eval() or innerHTML. 

# HTTP-only 

HttpOnly is an additional flag included in a Set-Cookie HTTP response header. Using the HttpOnly flag when generating a cookie helps mitigate the risk of client side script accessing the protected cookie (if the browser supports it).

If the HttpOnly flag (optional) is included in the HTTP response header, the cookie cannot be accessed through client side script (again if the browser supports this flag).

As a result, even if a cross-site scripting (XSS) flaw exists, and a user accidentally accesses a link that exploits this flaw, the browser (primarily Internet Explorer) will not reveal the cookie to a third party.

If a browser does not support HttpOnly and a website attempts to set an HttpOnly cookie, the HttpOnly flag will be ignored by the browser, thus creating a traditional, script accessible cookie.

https://owasp.org/www-community/HttpOnly
https://portswigger.net/kb/issues/00500600_cookie-without-httponly-flag-set
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WX4BHSm9uPI

**************************************************************************************************************************************
# XXE (External XMl Entity Injection)

XML? - 
XML is markup language to tag data (example <name>saksham</name>), it was developed as a standard for data storage and Exchange, XML is platform independent, it is human and machine readable, it can be published in diffrent forms like pdf, msword, html etc

# IDOR (Insecure Direct Object Reference)