API Mass Assignment is a condition where a client can overwrite server-side variables that the application should not allow. This is often a high risk vulnerability that can allow users to escalate privileges and manipulate business logic.

Modern frameworks encourage developers to use functions that automatically bind input from the client into code variables and internal objects. Attackers can use this methodology to update or overwrite sensitive object’s properties that the developers never intended to expose.

Objects in modern applications might contain many properties. Some of these properties should be updated directly by the client `(e.g., user.first_name or user.address)` and some of them should not be accessed/manupilated by client `(e.g., user.is_vip flag).`


An API endpoint is vulnerable if it automatically converts client parameters into internal object properties, without considering the sensitivity and the exposure level of these properties. 

This could allow an attacker to update object properties that they should not have access to

Examples for sensitive properties:

- Permission-related properties: `user.is_admin`, `user.is_vip `should only be set by admins.

- Process-dependent properties: `user.cash `should only be set internally after payment verification.

- Internal properties: `article.created_time` should only be set internally by the application.

# Exampls

The request GET /api/v1/users/me includes an additional credit_balance property:

{"user_name":"inons","age":24,"credit_balance":10}

The attacker replays the first request with the following payload:

{"user_name":"attacker","age":60,"credit_balance":99999}

Since the endpoint is vulnerable to mass assignment, the attacker receives credits without paying.

# Prevent

- If possible, avoid using functions that automatically bind a client’s input into code variables or internal objects.

- Whitelist only the properties that should be updated by the client.

- Use built-in features to blacklist properties that should not be accessed by clients.

- If applicable, explicitly define and enforce schemas for the input data payloads.
