https://owasp.org/Top10/A02_2021-Cryptographic_Failures/

Previously known as Sensitive Data Exposure

The focus is on failures related to cryptography (or lack thereof). Which often lead to exposure of sensitive data

# Things to check

- Is any data transmitted in clear text? 
- Are any old or weak cryptographic algorithms or protocols used ?
- Are default crypto keys in use, weak crypto keys generated or re-used, or is proper key management or rotation missing?
- Are crypto keys checked into source code repositories?
- Is encryption not enforced ?
- Is the received server certificate and the trust chain properly validated?
- Are deprecated hash functions such as MD5 or SHA1 in use ?
- Are non-cryptographic hash functions used when cryptographic hash functions are needed?

# Prevention

- Classify data processed, stored, or transmitted
- Don't store sensitive data unnecessarily. 
- Encrypt all sensitive data at rest.
- Use proper key management.
- Enforce encryption using directives like HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS).
- Disable caching for response that contain sensitive data.
- Do not use legacy protocols such as FTP and SMTP for transporting sensitive data.
- Store passwords using strong adaptive and salted hashing functions.
- Always use authenticated encryption instead of just encryption.
- Keys should be generated cryptographically randomly and stored in memory as byte arrays.
- If a password is used, then it must be converted to a key via an appropriate password base key derivation function.
- Avoid deprecated cryptographic functions and padding schemes, such as MD5, SHA1, PKCS number 1 v1.5 .


# Noted CWE 

CWE-261 Weak Encoding for Password

CWE-296 Improper Following of a Certificate's Chain of Trust

CWE-310 Cryptographic Issues

CWE-319 Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information

CWE-321 Use of Hard-coded Cryptographic Key

CWE-322 Key Exchange without Entity Authentication

CWE-323 Reusing a Nonce, Key Pair in Encryption

CWE-324 Use of a Key Past its Expiration Date

CWE-325 Missing Required Cryptographic Step

CWE-326 Inadequate Encryption Strength

CWE-327 Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm

CWE-328 Reversible One-Way Hash

CWE-329 Not Using a Random IV with CBC Mode

CWE-330 Use of Insufficiently Random Values

CWE-331 Insufficient Entropy

CWE-335 Incorrect Usage of Seeds in Pseudo-Random Number Generator(PRNG)

CWE-336 Same Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)

CWE-337 Predictable Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)

CWE-338 Use of Cryptographically Weak Pseudo-Random Number Generator(PRNG)

CWE-340 Generation of Predictable Numbers or Identifiers

CWE-347 Improper Verification of Cryptographic Signature

CWE-523 Unprotected Transport of Credentials

CWE-720 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A9 - Insecure Communications

CWE-757 Selection of Less-Secure Algorithm During Negotiation('Algorithm Downgrade')

CWE-759 Use of a One-Way Hash without a Salt

CWE-760 Use of a One-Way Hash with a Predictable Salt

CWE-780 Use of RSA Algorithm without OAEP

CWE-818 Insufficient Transport Layer Protection

CWE-916 Use of Password Hash With Insufficient Computational Effort