

`Web session security` is focused on preventing three types of attacks against session IDs: 

 - interception, 
 - prediction 
 - and brute-force attacks. 

- Encrypted communication effectively protects against interception 1
- Using cryptographically strong pseudo-random number generators and carefully chosen seeds that don’t leak from the server prevents prediction of session IDs. 
- Finally, session IDs are immune to brute-force methods if their effective bit-length is large enough with respect to the number of simultaneous sessions 


BUT BUT,  This approach, however, ignores one possibility: namely the possibility of the attacker “issuing” a session ID to the user’s browser, thereby forcing the browser into using a chosen session. We’ll call this class of attacks “session fixation” attacks, because the user’s session ID has been fixed in advance instead of having been generated randomly at login time

# Session Fixation
https://www.acrossecurity.com/papers/session_fixation.pdf

In a session fixation attack, the attacker fixes the user’s session ID before the user even logs into the target server, thereby eliminating the need to
obtain the user’s session ID afterwards

* How this works, example senerio

Suppose there is a web server online.worldbank.dom that hosts a session-aware web banking application. Session IDs are transported from browser to server within a URL argument sessionid.

1. First, the attacker – who in this case is also a legitimate user of the system – logs in to the server and is issued a session ID 1234 

2. he then sends a hyperlink http://online.worldbank.dom/login.jsp?sessionid=1234 to the victim user, trying to lure him into clicking on it.

3. The user (how convenient for our example) clicks on the link, which opens the server’s login page in his browser, Note that upon receipt of the request for login.jsp?sessionid=1234, the web application has established that a session already exists for this user and a new one need not be
created. 

4. Finally, the user provides his credentials to the login script and the server grants him access to his bank account. However, at this point, knowing the session ID, the attacker can also access the user’s account via account.jsp?sessionid=1234

Since the session has already been fixed before the user logged in, we say that the user logged into the attacker’s session


# How does the attacker fixate the user's session identifier?

- MITM Attacks
- XSS Attacks
- Physical Attacks
- Sessionid in URL

- `MITM Attacks`

In a man-in-the-middle attack the attacker has control over the target user's network traffic and can forge a `Set-Cookie `reply or a `document.cookie `JavaScript call "from the server" to set the session id.


- `XSS attacks`

In a cross-site scripting attack, the attacker runs malicious JavaScript on the website and injects a `document.cookie` call on the page which sets the user's session id.


- `Compromised subdomains`

All subdomains can overwrite an application's cookies by default, so if there is, e.g., an XSS vulnerability on `foo.example.com`, an attacker can use it to change the user's cookie on` www.example.com.`


- `Physical attacks`

Someone with physical access to the web-browser can easily set cookies for a website before the next computer user logs in.


- `By session id in URL`

Some older application frameworks do silly things like taking session identifiers directly from URL parameters, making the application vulnerable to session fixation attacks.

In such scenarios, the attacker can create a link with the attacker's session ID and get someone to open it.

If you see something like "?JSESSIONID=12345" in your URL, then you might want to do something about it.


# Preventions

-  `Secure` attribute


- `Only accept session ID values that have been previously generated by the web application`.

- `Verify Session IDs` must be considered untrusted, as any other user input processed by the web application, and they must be thoroughly validated and 
                       verified.

- `Regenerate The session ID` must be renewed or regenerated by the web application after any privilege level change within the associated user session.
                              The session ID regeneration is mandatory to prevent session fixation attacks, where an attacker sets the session ID on the victim user's web browser instead of gathering the victim's session ID

- `verify all cookies`, If the web application uses cookies as the session ID exchange mechanism, and multiple cookies are set for a given session, the 
                        web application must verify all cookies 

- `Verify both pre and post authentication cookie`,It is very common for web applications to set a user cookie pre-authentication over HTTP to keep track 
                                                  of unauthenticated (or anonymous) users. Once the user authenticates in the web application, a new post-authentication secure cookie is set over HTTPS, and a binding between both cookies and the user session is established. If the web application does not verify both cookies for authenticated sessions, an attacker can make use of the pre-authentication unprotected cookie to get access to the authenticated user session

- `Session Expiration` It is mandatory to set expiration timeouts for every session, establishing the amount of time a session will remain active. 
                       Insufficient session expiration by the web application increases the exposure of other session-based attacks, as for the attacker to be able to reuse a valid session ID and hijack the associated session, it must still be active

- `Prevent Web Content Cacheing` - web applications must use restrictive cache directives for all the web traffic exchanged through HTTP and HTTPS, such 
                                   as the `Cache-Control and Pragma HTTP headers, and/or equivalent META tags` on all or (at least) sensitive web pages.
                                   Independently of the cache policy defined by the web application, if caching web application contents is allowed, the session IDs must never be cached, so it is highly recommended to use the `Cache-Control: no-cache="Set-Cookie, Set-Cookie2" `directive, to allow web clients to cache everything except the session ID

- `Binding the Session ID to Other User Properties` - With the goal of detecting (and, in some scenarios, protecting against) user misbehaviors and 
                                                      session hijacking, it is highly recommended to bind the session ID to other user or client properties, such as the client IP address, User-Agent, or client-based digital certificate. If the web application detects any change or anomaly between these different properties in the middle of an established session, this is a very good indicator of session manipulation and hijacking attempts, and this simple fact can be used to alert and/or terminate the suspicious session.