https://datawookie.dev/blog/2023/12/ssh-tunnel-local-port-forwarding/
https://datawookie.dev/blog/2023/12/ssh-tunnel-dynamic-port-forwarding/


# SSH Tunnel

SSH tunnels are a powerful and secure method for transmitting data over potentially unsecured networks. 

They allow users to establish an encrypted connection between their local machine and a remote server, providing a secure and private pathway for data.

An SSH tunnel will allow a service running on a remote machine Port to appear as if it is running on a local machine Port. This is also known as `Port Forwarding`.

SSH has built-in functionality to do `Port Forwarding` through this feature called `SSH Tunneling`

While SSH used to be a protocol associated with Linux systems, Windows now ships with the OpenSSH client by default, so you can expect to find it in many systems nowadays, independent of their operating system.


# Example Need of SSH Tunnel

Suppose that you need to access a database server within a corporate network or on a private AWS network. The database server is intentionally inaccessible from the public internet and there’s no way to establish a direct connection to the database. However, if you have access to an SSH server on the same network and it’s possible to establish a connection from the SSH server to the database server, then an SSH tunnel can be used to establish a connection to the database server from outside the private network.


# Components of SSH tunnel

1. `Local Host`  - The computer from which the SSH tunnel is initiated. This is `where you run the SSH client` software and is most often your local machine.

2. `SSH Server` -  The machine running the SSH server. The SSH connection is made between the local host and the SSH server. This is generally a well 
                   secured server and is also known as the `"bastion host" or "jump host"`.

3. `Remote Host` - The machine that you are actually wanting to connect to.

4. `Local Port` -  The port on the local host which we use as the entry point to the SSH tunnel.

5. `Remote Port` - The port on the remote host which is used to handle data arriving or leaving via the SSH tunnel.

********************************************************************************************************************************************8

# Types of SSH Tunnel Connection

# `Local / Forward Port Forwarding (-L)`

Forward / Local port forwarding can be done from our attacking box when we have SSH access to the target, then you can connecy to SSH server of compromised machine from SSH client of your attacking machine.


# `Remote / Reverse Port Forwarding (-R)`

Remote / Reverse Port Forwarding is preferable if you have a shell on the compromised server, but not the SSH access, then you can use SSH client and connect to SSH server of your attacking machine


# `SOCKS Proxy / Dynamic Port Forwarding (-D)`

In contrast to Local and Remote, In Dynamic no destination port is specified with dynamic port forwarding. Only a local port is specified, which acts as a listening socket for a `SOCKS` proxy server. Requests to all local ports are then channeled through this proxy to their destination.

we can use `Proxychains` with SOCKS proxy if we dont want to mention socks in every command to create proxy, but it is very slow.


# `sshuttle `

It doesn't perform a port forward, and the proxy it creates is nothing like the ones we have already seen above

In short, it simulates a VPN, allowing us to route our traffic through the proxy `without using any additional tool like proxychains or other`

Limitations/Requireents
 
- It need Access to the compromised server via `SSH`

- `Python` also needs to be installed on the server

- sshuttle only works on Linux targets.

- we can’t ping or do a SYN Scan through SSHUTTLE similar to proxychains.