https://tryhackme.com/r/room/dnsindetail

# What happens when you make a DNS request

1. When you request a domain name, your computer first checks its `local cache` to see if you've previously looked up the address recently; if not, a request to your `Recursive DNS Server` will be made.

2. A `Recursive DNS Server` (Recurser / Resolver) is usually provided by your ISP, but you can also choose your own. This server also has a local cache of recently looked up domain names. If a result is found locally, this is sent back to your computer, and your request ends here (this is common for popular and heavily requested services such as Google, Facebook, Twitter). If the request cannot be found locally, a journey begins to find the correct answer, starting with the internet's root DNS servers.

3. The `root servers` act as the DNS backbone of the internet; their job is to redirect you to the correct `Top Level Domain Server`, depending on your request. If, for example, you request www.tryhackme.com, the root server will recognise the Top Level Domain of `.com `and refer you to the correct TLD server that deals with .com addresses.

4. The TLD server holds records for where to find the `authoritative server` to answer the DNS request. The authoritative server is often also known as the `nameserver` for the domain. For example, the name server for tryhackme.com is kip.ns.cloudflare.com and uma.ns.cloudflare.com. You'll often find multiple nameservers for a domain name to act as a backup in case one goes down.

5. An authoritative DNS server is the server that is responsible for storing the DNS records for a particular domain name and where any updates to your domain name DNS records would be made. Depending on the record type, the DNS record is then sent back to the `Recursive DNS Server`, where a local copy will be cached for future requests and then relayed back to the original client that made the request. DNS records all come with a `TTL (Time To Live)` value. This value is a number represented in seconds that the response should be saved for locally until you have to look it up again. `Caching` saves on having to make a DNS request every time you communicate with a server.

*************************************

# Example Case Study 1 - backend.husseinnasser.com

https://medium.com/@hnasr/the-networking-behind-clicking-a-link-b2ce36b7cf14

Background - Each of my software engineering courses has a CNAME record my DNS provider hosts that points to a unique Netlify domain. On Netlify, I host an HTML page that redirects to the actual course link. This way I can share the CNAME domain on my socials while having full control to update the course coupons or redirect to a completely different link in case I decided to switch course management systems. The original link remains the same.

Clicking the link https://backend.husseinnasser.com redirects the browser to my course on udemy, the process goes through DNS, TCP, TLS, ALPN/SNI and HTTP/2, I detail each section below.


# `DNS`

First lets see CNAMe and other things using command host/dig/nslookup

┌──(kali㉿kali)-[~]
└─$ `dig backend.husseinnasser.com`

;; ANSWER SECTION:
backend.husseinnasser.com. 5    IN      CNAME   zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app.
zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app. 5 IN   A       13.215.144.61
zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app. 5 IN   A       13.251.96.10

┌──(kali㉿kali)-[~]
└─$ `host backend.husseinnasser.com`   

backend.husseinnasser.com is an alias for zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app.
zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app has address 13.215.144.61
zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app has address 13.251.96.10
zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app has IPv6 address 2406:da18:b3d:e200::64
zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app has IPv6 address 2406:da18:b3d:e202::64

┌──(kali㉿kali)-[~]
└─$ `nslookup backend.husseinnasser.com`
Server:         192.168.204.2
Address:        192.168.204.2#53

Non-authoritative answer:
backend.husseinnasser.com       canonical name = zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app.
Name:   zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app
Address: 46.137.195.11
Name:   zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app
Address: 18.139.194.139
Name:   zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app
Address: 2406:da18:880:3802::c8
Name:   zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app
Address: 2406:da18:b3d:e201::64

Assume no dns cache is there at any point.

1. When you click on https://backend.husseinnasser.com, the HTTP client (your browser) issues a DNS lookup for backend.husseinnasser.com to get the IP address.

2. The first stop of the DNS query is your `DNS recursor` (or resolver), this could be Google 8.8.8.8 or Cloudflare’s 1.1.1.1 for example. 

3. The recursor asks the ROOT DNS servers for a `.com` top level domain server `(TLD) server`.

4. The recursor then send a query to a TLD server asking for the `authorative`/ `name server` where husseinnasser.com is hosted, 

5. TLD server returns one of the enom server (enom is domain registrar like GoDaddy).

6. Finally the recursor sends the DNS query  to an enom server to get the IP address for backend.husseinnasser.com

7. Recursor discovers that backend.husseinnasser.com is a `CNAME (Canonical Name)` that points to `zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app`.

8. So Recusrsor now does a new DNS query to resolve `zen-mccarthy-34c0bb.netlify.app` and the process is repeated until an IP address is discovered.

